GOPHERMAP FILE DOCUMENTATION FROM THE PYGOPHERD MAN PAGE

       The gophermap files contain two types of  lines,  which  are  described
       here  using  the  same  convention normally used for command line argu-
       ments.  In this section, the symbol \t will be used to indicate  a  tab
       character, Control-I.

        full line of informational text


        gophertypeDESCRIPTION [ \tselector [ \thost [ \tport ] ] ]


       Note:  spaces  shown above are for clarity only and should not actually
       be present in your file.

       The informational text must not contain any  tab  characters,  but  may
       contain  spaces.   Informational text will be rendered with gopher type
       i, which will cause it to be displayed on a client's screen at its par-
       ticular position in the file.

       The  second  type of line represents a link to a file or directory.  It
       begins with a single-character  Gopher  type  (see  Gopher  Item  Types
       below)  followed  immediately  by  a  description  and a tab character.
       There is no space or other separator between the gopher  type  and  the
       description.  The description may contain spaces but not tabs.

       The remaining arguments are optional, but only to the extent that argu-
       ments may be omitted only if all arguments after them are also omitted.
       These arguments are:

       selector
              The  selector  is  the  name  of  the file on the server.  If it
              begins with a slash, it is an absolute path;  otherwise,  it  is
              interpreted relative to the directory that the gophermap file is
              in.  If no selector is specified, the description is  also  used
              as the selector.

       host   The  host  specifies the host on which this resource is located.
              If not specified, defaults to the current server.

       port   The port specifies the port on which the  resource  is  located.
              If  not  specified,  defaults  to the port the current server is
              listening on.

